Hi, my name is Louisa Martinez,
I work for USS.
So last time, Jeff
talked a little bit
about z/OS Unix and Sysplex.
So now I'm going to
be talking about
how they both work together.
So in z/OS Unix,
you have access to the entire
file system hierarchy.
The way this is done is that
once your file system is mounted,
an owning only LPAR is assigned.
So once this is mounted,
now all the LPARs and users
have access to this file.
This is kind of done in two ways,
one way is that through COS Unix,
we forward all the
transactions and
requests associated with
one file to the owning LPAR.
Another way is called
Six Flex aware.
This is also called
as read write share.
In this case,
the files are mounted
locally to your LPAR and
instead of forwarding,
they're handled within that.
The reasons why someone might
choose one over the other,
could be for performance,
or convenience, or it
could be just by choice.
Overall, just the share
file system environment
has a lot of advantages,
such as your z/OS Unix data
it's always available,
regardless.
So even if you're owning LPAR,
were to come down for
one or the other reason,
your z/OS Unix data is still
available for you to
use from other systems.
This is just a brief
explanation how this works,
but if you're curious
and want to find
out more about all the details,
there's tons of documentations
online you can go and read,
and that's all I had to share,
hopefully this was useful,
again my name is Teresa Martinez.